Welcome to our library studio here as part
of the Yahowah vlog.
I'm your host, Craig Winn.
We're going to continue our study on the
last word picture.
This is a derivative of a program we
began a month ago seeking to understand
the whole intervention that took place
with Dowd as a result of him being
visited by a surrogate mother of whom he
had some extraordinary things to say and
who said some extraordinary things to him
uh it was uh one of the real
eye openers uh i've been
working alongside Yahowah now for twenty-five
years, have written thirty-five books,
twenty-five thousand pages,
have a hundred thousand hours invested in
this enterprise, and have done many,
many thousands upon thousands of radio
interviews and now a thousand hours of the
Yahowah blog.
And in all of that time,
there are a handful of things that we
come across.
that just profoundly changed the way we
look at things,
that caused us to grow exponentially.
That last word picture,
the thirty-first Mashal, was one of them.
We recognize that based upon it,
based upon what was written,
that Dowd said and did in Second Samuel,
and how horrific that was.
And then Dowd's response to God,
blaming God for the predicament that he
made in the fifty first Psalm.
That literally the fate of humanity hung
in the balance if Dowd couldn't get his
act together and he had really spiraled
out of control and there was no one
that seemed to be able to get his
attention,
not
Not Joab, not Nathan,
and no one else around him,
certainly not any of his wives,
not any of his advisors,
not a prophet during the day.
No one got his attention.
He was in a spiral,
and it was spinning out of control very
quickly.
And so we realized that the...
Thirty-first Mashal
was an intervention to sober him up,
to get him thinking appropriately,
get him to understand who he was.
But it wasn't nearly enough.
And what followed was the Eighty-Ninth
Mizmowr,
where Ethan ha Ezrachy the perpetually
deployed one.
co-authored this with Yahowah.
And it was designed to lay it all
on the line,
to explain to Dowd exactly who he was,
what was expected of him,
what was required to finish the job,
how he was going to redeem himself and
his people,
how he was going to enable the benefits
of the covenant again to resolve his
crisis as well as the ongoing crisis of
his people.
And all the while,
what we learned is that Dowd,
without a decent mother and father in this
particular life,
came to represent Yisrael.
He was as belligerent as his people,
as misguided as the rest of Yahuwdym.
He was an example and to a large
degree of what not to do.
That had to change,
but the purpose of him coming across like
the rest of Israel was to show that
that could be resolved and that what Dowd
would do would resolve it.
But it would only resolve it when his
relationship with Yahowah was resolved.
And for that,
there would be an intervention.
It's a profound perspective of how Yahowah
goes about
solving serious problems.
And you look back at time and there's
a number of places where God intervened a
very similar way with souls that he
trusted to resolve crises.
And that's how he got to know who
he could trust, who we could rely upon,
who would get the job done,
who would exemplify the very
characteristics that were important to
Yahowah.
So continuing where we left off our last
time, I would share that God said,
and the entire heart of this Mizmowr is
in Yahowah's voice.
He says, Echad, there is only one.
Once and for all,
there is a singular man to whom I
have affirmed the truth by having made a
promise, Shaba.
to whom I have validated my commitment
through a sworn oath to be affirmed seven
times over ba qodesh any,
my uniquely set apart nature.
If not to Dowd, the beloved,
who the world has miscast as David
I am shown to be a liar and
a disappointment.
I have committed that which is not true,
and I will have failed by having been
deceptive and false.
And in the end, will it become futile,
inept, and delusional.
piel imperfect first-person
singular.
This is Psalm eighty-nine thirty-five.
It's one of the most
Misunderstood and profoundly statements,
profound in statements in God's voice ever
made.
So let's consider the implications of
this.
Yahowah, who is alone as God.
He is the inspiration for the entirety of
the Towrah, prophets, Mashal, Proverbs,
and writings.
And he said, and I quote, Echad,
there is only one to whom I have
affirmed the truth by having made a
promise.
Only one, and he named him Dowd.
Therefore, to say that Jesus is the one,
to claim that God promised that Jesus
would arrive,
that God spoke of a Jesus and to
the extent he was a Messiah and a
Savior, or that he himself was Jesus,
is to call God a liar.
All Christians are calling God a liar.
Period.
That's what it says.
If you can't deal with it,
then just don't.
know that I know, and God knows,
that the Christian religion exists to call
God a liar.
There is only one.
There aren't two.
And even if there were two,
Jesus wouldn't qualify.
Guess why?
He's never mentioned.
Because everything of value that is
attributed to this myth of Jesus was
stolen from Dowd,
including this statement.
You want a God so stupid that he
doesn't know his son's name?
He doesn't know the individual to whom he
has affirmed the truth?
Is your God that stupid?
Only must be.
There is only one to whom I have
affirmed the truth by having made a
promise.
And then he says,
by my uniquely set apart nature,
Qodesh Ani.
You see, God isn't common.
The religious gods are all common.
Religions are the most common things that
men have ever pursued.
God is set apart from the politics and
religions of man.
The religious gods, Hashem, Adonai,
the Lord, Jesus, Allah,
those gods are common.
They're the antithesis of ba-Qodesh ani,
my set apart nature.
You understand the difference?
God is looking for people who are
uncommon, like he is uncommon,
who are not religious,
who are not political.
Jesus is a religious construct.
So is Allah.
Therefore,
they are not set apart from the common
and ordinary things of man.
They were created to be popular by men.
Then God says, if not to Dowd,
he doesn't say if not to Jesus.
He doesn't say if not to Allah.
He doesn't say if not to the Lord.
He doesn't say if not to Hashem.
He says to Dowd, no.
Those of you who don't know who Dowd
is because you buy into the rabbinical
myth that the wah is pronounced like a
V or that there is an I in
the name, it doesn't exist.
I suspect,
just going out on a limb here,
that God knows how to spell his son's
name.
If he made a promise to someone and
he says that person's name is Dowd,
spelled D'leth, wah D'leth,
My hunch is that the God who created
this universe and authored life and wrote
the lyrics to this song knows how to
spell and pronounce his son's name.
But obviously,
if you're a religious Christian,
Muslim or Jew,
You disagree.
Your God is so stupid he can't spell.
Your God is so stupid he doesn't really
know the name of his beloved son,
the Messiah, the returning king.
Your God is an ignoramus.
I happen to agree.
Why don't you admit it?
If not to Dowd,
I am shown to be a liar.
and a disappointment,
because I have committed that which is not
true,
and I will have failed by having been
deceptive and false.
In the end, I will have become futile,
inept, and delusional.
It's more than I will be shown to
be a liar.
It's that if Dowd doesn't fulfill,
The promises that God made through him.
That God's whole plan is futile.
That the whole thing is deceptive,
it's false.
And that God's nothing but a
disappointment.
Now, what does that mean?
If you're going to think,
why is it that people are afraid to
think?
They'd rather believe than they would
know.
And they most certain rather have faith
than understand.
But that's not satisfactory.
Not if you're going to be part of
God's family.
What does it mean when God says that
if it's not through Dowd,
I will have become a disappointment,
not just a liar, a disappointment.
I will have communicated that which is not
true and I will have failed.
Because Dowd has had more than one life
already.
I think that this one where he was
the shepherd boy that became King was at
the very least his third.
I think Dowd is the first man,
which is how Dowd earned the title God's
firstborn.
The only way he could have earned that
title.
in advance of him fulfilling firstborn
children,
he could only earn that title where God
says, he is my Bakowr,
he is my firstborn.
Because God conceived Adam,
causing Adam to be his firstborn.
And Adam is not a name,
it is a title.
It's ha Adam, the man.
God was that man.
Now I'm convinced that since,
Adam was a mixed bag.
Yeah, well, I loved him,
but Adam was like Dowd at this moment,
irresponsible.
Wasn't paying attention,
making horrendous decisions,
certainly not dependable.
But I see an enormous amount in Adam
that we see in Dowd.
And so I can see how Dowd was
his firstborn.
I can also see how it was important
for Dowd to have had a productive life.
I see Dowd as Shem, the name,
in his second life.
You don't have to agree with me.
I think if you do and you follow
it through and you think it through,
you realize that it's the only rational
answer that can be deduced from the
evidence and it's the most satisfying one.
But here's what becomes essential.
Whether you acknowledge that Dowd was Adam
and that Dowd was Shem,
you need to understand that Dowd didn't
become Yahowah's Bakowr firstborn by having
a whorish mother and a derelict father
Dowd didn't become the center of Yahowah's
attention, his chosen one,
by being a shepherd out there at eight
years old.
And Dowd did not do what was required
to keep God's plan from being
disappointing,
from God having failed in that life,
because it did not end well.
At the very end, he...
returned to the relationship,
but didn't change the fact that he had
many years where he was antagonistic to
God every bit as much as Israel has
been.
So for God to say that if what
he has said through Dowd
doesn't occur, he's a disappointment.
You have to go back to the first
statement that Yahowah made about Dowd in
this very Psalm.
What was that, do you know,
do you remember?
He said that it was through Dowd that
he established, he cut the covenant.
He established and cut the covenant with
dote.
Now, what does that mean?
Well, the benefits of the covenant,
and there are five,
are all fulfilled and enabled by Pesach,
Matsah, and Bikuwrym.
With Pesach, the door to life is opened.
We become immortal.
With Matsah,
our guilt is removed and taken into Sheowl,
and we become not guilty anymore.
With Bikuwrym,
we are adopted as God's children into the
covenant family,
and we are enriched and empowered by him
tenfold.
Those are the benefits of the covenant.
That's how the covenant's benefits were
enabled,
and for that to be ascribed to Dowd,
which is God's son,
first statement in this Psalm,
it's in the third verse,
it means that Dowd fulfilled them.
And he certainly did not fulfill them in
this life, did he?
Which means he had another life,
doesn't it?
So if he had another life going forward,
why do you think that God's restricted to
the point that Dowd's soul could not have
appeared previous to this?
Now, I know at this point,
The majority of you who have been part
of this covenant family and have kept a
pace reading all of the books that I've
written and have listened to these
programs know this to be true because it
resonates because quite frankly,
it's the only way that God could have
been responsible in dealing with humanity
over the ages.
The only way, there is no other option.
It is certain that this is true.
And there are so many affirmations of it,
it's overwhelming.
Let me just tell you a funny one.
There is an argument between Leah and
Rachel.
And they are fighting over what has been
translated as a mandrake.
And
Leia is saying that she will offer her
mandrakes to her sister if she can have
her sister's time with Jakob.
Because she had not conceived in a while
and wanted to conceive again.
Do you know what the actual name is
of what is assumed to be a mandrake?
Do you know?
That word Mandrake doesn't appear.
Do you know what it is?
It's Dodie.
They're talking about Dodie and how
important Dodie is.
When Moshe and Dabarym is addressing the
people and he has his single most
important prophecy,
and he's talking about the one who is
going to come,
that God's going to hold us accountable
for what he says and does.
He's speaking of Dowd.
Long before Dowd existed in this life.
And when Dowd tells us that he fulfilled
Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym in the twenty-second Mizmowr,
telling us exactly how he was going to
suffer from Roman crucifixion a thousand
years before the torture was invented,
well,
about seven hundred years before the
torture was invented,
a thousand years before he would endure
it.
He spoke specifically of being born
naturally.
impregnated by a father to his mother
being part of the natural childbirth
process meshing forced as the water breaks
and then nursing on his mother's bosom so
Dowd he's writing in first person he's
speaking of himself
It is what the words say,
it's where the words lead.
Whether or not you're mature enough,
comfortable enough, open-minded enough,
consistent with Yahowah enough to accept
that, it's up to you.
But if the only way
that God becomes a disappointment because
of Dowd disappointing God up to this
point.
And read what happened.
I mean,
Dowd was a horrendous disappointment
before this intervention.
And so at the time this was being
revealed, Dowd was the disappointment,
not God.
And if that hadn't been rectified by the
intervention of two people,
that God chose to intervene with that
operated as surrogate parents.
It was a husband and wife.
If that doesn't explain to you what he's
talking about,
then perhaps you can come up with another
answer that's rational,
that fits the narrative.
There isn't any, but you can try.
But why?
When this answer is so consistent.
It is the only way for a man
who at this point was a disappointment to
rise to the occasion so that God wouldn't
be a disappointment when everything he
said about Dowd comes true.
So long as Dowd answers the call and
arrives in that next life in thirty-three,
well he would have been born again in
probably two BCE,
would have fulfilled his mission in
thirty-three CE,
Keep in mind what this explains.
Because there is clearly,
the man who created the myth of Jesus
had it in for three men, a Jacob,
a Shimon, who became known as Peter,
and a Yochanan, condemned them all.
viciously,
and so there were three men who stood
in Paul's way of Paul claiming that he
was the grand poobah of all things related
to his Dionysian God.
So if Dowd was born the old-fashioned way,
back in two BCE,
so he's prepared to fulfill Pesach,
Matsah,
and Bikuwrym in the year of four thousand
YAH,
Wouldn't the natural explanation be,
since Christians stole everything from
Dowd, the fact he was from Bethlehem,
his natural childbirth,
and the fact that he had brothers, Ya'aqob,
Shimon, Yochanan,
and they were the ones miscast as
disciples that Paul attacked.
And now you have an explanation for how
it all played out.
Natural, convincing,
consistent with the evidence,
and with the counterfeit fraud.
There's more.
Psalm.
Eighty-nine, thirty-five.
Again,
whether or not you think that Dowd was
just magically put into his soul,
into an adult body,
which I don't have a problem with God
doing.
I thought that was what he did previously,
until I had to deal with the...
Twenty-second Mizmowr,
which says otherwise.
But, you know, you want to believe that,
that's fine.
But you still have to recognize that Dowd
fulfilled Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym because God said he did.
Dowd acknowledges that he did.
The whole purpose of Dowd's visit is
Gabry'el with Mykael.
To Daniel,
five hundred and fifty five BCE is to
explain when and why and how he as
the Messiah would fulfill Chag Matsah.
And he gave us the exact day that
he fulfilled it.
It's the only natural explanation.
Because that's what happened.
That's what God's talking about.
How are we going to deal with it?
I know you live in a world that
you tell truth like this and you're going
to have the world hostile to you because
in rabbinical Judaism,
God can't have a son,
even though God says otherwise.
They'll deny God, call God a liar,
that God says he's my firstborn.
He says three different times,
he's my son, I'm his father, three times.
And yet in rabbinical Judaism,
they outright deny that,
which means they're calling God a liar.
God says that Dowd is the Messiah and
he anointed him with his own oil.
And yet in rabbinical Judaism,
they're expecting a wholly different
unnamed Messiah that's going to be a
warlord.
And they, of course,
put themselves in the diaspora and got the
land to be renamed because they promoted
the warlord Bar Kochba,
which was the beginning of rabbinic
Judaism under Rabbi Akiba and his false
Messiah is the essence of Judaism.
That's how it was conceived.
and yet they'll call God a liar.
Listen,
God cannot succeed without Dowd
succeeding.
Without Dowd succeeding,
there's no fulfillment of Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym,
which means there is no chance for a
Shabuwah harvest or a Taruwah gleaning.
There's no purpose for the Adamah Parah on
Taruwah because there's no homecoming of
Dowd with Yahowah on Kipurym.
So the earth's not gonna be recast as
Eden,
nor is a remnant of Israel going to
come back to Jerusalem.
It's all for naught,
the entire human experience.
That's why Yahowah says in a very prophetic
statement where he is affirming the
restoration of his bareth covenant
relationship, this very same covenant,
with Yisrael and Yahuwdym that it's going
to be accomplished through the greater and
lesser luminaries, the maowr and Qatan,
Gadowl and Qatan.
And he equates them to the sun and
the moon.
And he says that if the,
whole plan that he has articulated,
that cuts us into this relationship,
does not materialize with these two
individuals,
the way he has articulated it,
then Israel is destroyed.
There is no hope for his people.
No Pesach, Matsah, Bikuwrym, Shabuwah,
Taruwah, Kipurym, or Sukah.
And that means that not only did Dowd
have a life after this one,
where he was born again,
the old-fashioned way,
this time with a mother and father that
cared for him,
but that he is returning in
twenty-thirty-three,
year six-thousand YAH, on Kipurym.
That's what it means.
El YAH is returning too.
So is Chanowkah.
Therefore, the religion of Judaism,
just like Christianity,
is an insult to Yahowah, despised by him.
When the religious contradict God while
claiming his authority,
they are calling God a liar,
and they annul his plans.
The obvious and undeniable consequence of
this proclamation within this context is
that all of the accolades,
assessments and achievements that Yahowah
has already and will continue to ascribe
to Dowd apply exclusively to Dowd.
They are not removable,
diminishable or transferable.
He said, I've done it to one
and his name is Dowd.
And if that doesn't materialize as I have
said,
you can call me a liar and I
will have failed.
So this requires us to recognize the Dowd,
the beloved is Makir because God said so
in this song, God's chosen one.
He is Shaba because God said so twice
already in this Psalm that he is God's
promised one.
God has called Dowd,
the most extraordinary of all titles,
Elyown,
all things pertaining to God's influence.
Elyown.
He has said twice that Dowd is his
Ebed, God's coworker,
the one through whom
he achieved these results.
He is called Dowd the Zarowa,
which is the sacrificial lamb.
He has said that Dowd is Ha Mashyach,
the Messiah.
He has said that Dowd is Echad,
right here, the one designated by God.
He has said that Dowd Karath was used
to establish the Beryth covenant.
He said that Dowd is Owlam Kuwn Zera,
the offspring established forever.
He said that Dowd is Kise Dowr wa Dowr,
that his sovereignty exists everywhere for
all time.
That Dowd is the Gibowr,
the most capable and courageous man.
Dowd is Bachar, God's tested, approved,
and appointed one.
He is Matsa,
the one found and exposed by God.
Not somebody else.
He is mashach, God's anointed.
Yad kuwn,
he is the hand through whom God
established all of this thing.
He is Amets,
the empowering and enabling one.
He is sane,
the one many have pilfered and sought to
replace.
He is Emuwnah, the tested and reliable one.
He is Chesed, loved and favored by God.
He is Qeren, crowned by God,
radiant in God's presence.
He is Ruwm, raised and exalted by God.
All of these designations are made in this
Psalm, inspired by God,
written largely by God.
He is Qara,
he's the one invited and welcomed by God.
He is Ab Any Atah,
he calls God his father.
And God says of him,
he is my Bakowr, my firstborn son.
Owlam Shamar,
God's eternal and everlasting focus.
Beryth Aman,
He is the verification of the covenant
family.
He is Sym Zera,
established and preserved as he sows the
very children that will become covenant.
He is Kise Shamaym, heaven's throne,
having that status.
He is Towrah Halak,
he walks in God's teaching and guidance.
He is Chesed Lo Parar,
never, never estranged.
Those thirty things were said of Dowd,
not me, not you, not Paul, not Jesus,
not Mr. Christ, not Akiba,
not Bar Kochba, not Maimonides,
not Muhammad, not Allah, not any Rabbi,
Imam or Pope.
They were stated by Yahowah regarding each
had one solitary man.
To claim otherwise is to call God a
liar and to say that God's plan is
disappointing.
such as the nature of Christianity, Islam,
and Judaism.
Now,
there is another revealing aspect of kazab
that I had missed, passed over,
been negligent in properly assessing on
this pronouncement in prior years.
Times that I have translated,
which is probably upwards now of fifteen
or more.
So Yahowah is saying that his integrity and
credibility are on the line with Dowd.
We know that.
He is also acknowledging that should he
not prevail with Dowd, excuse me,
A neighbor's son showed up and the dogs
loved the neighbor's son,
but we have to have more discipline than
somebody coming to distract.
I'm sorry for that.
So God is also acknowledging that should
he not prevail with Dowd,
where he said that Dowd would establish
the covenant.
that Dowd would return with him as Elyown,
as his influence,
that Dowd's seat of honor would exist
forever and be as brilliant as the sun.
That if that doesn't happen,
that he said he would be a disappointment,
disappointing himself and us,
and that he would fail.
God fails if Dowd doesn't succeed.
That was what was on the line when
these words were written.
That's why this intervention took place.
That is why Ethan ha Ezrachy is
not an average Joe Schmo that just
happened to show up on the doorstep one
moment and said, hey, I've got a pen.
Why don't you lay it on me?
I'll tell him what he needs to know.
No,
he was the furthest thing from that in
his name.
Conveys it.
He was the eternally deployed.
The one who has been brought back and
used over and over again because he's
dependable.
Because he gets the job done.
He's God's fixer.
Because if Dowd's not fixed,
God's disappoints.
God's all in with his son, Dowd.
He's our savior.
He's the returning king.
He's the exemplar.
He's the one who enabled the benefits of
the covenant.
He's the one who fulfilled the Mow'ed Miqra'ey.
There's no backup plan for Dowd.
And so the plan was to intervene with
somebody that God was comfortable using,
that he had used before,
who he knew would get this job done,
that they would resolve Dowd's issues
leading up to his estrangement.
in the very way that we have outlined,
which is the very purpose of these
programs.
And if that had not occurred,
we wouldn't be here today.
Not only wouldn't I be here today,
you wouldn't be here today.
Earth would have already spiraled out of
control.
Prophecies would have gone unfulfilled.
God would have said that humanity isn't
worth the effort.
and he would have walked away from the
whole bloody mess.
Now, are you getting the picture?
Do you understand what's at stake?
Do you understand why I have decided that
it is essential that we focus on training
those who will be part of the upcoming
Shabuwah harvest so that you,
Know what you need to observe,
how you need to respond,
what you need to consider,
and how you too can prove that you're
trustworthy and reliable.
Because this is the team that God wants
to use going forward,
not only through the last three and a
half years of the time of Israel's
trouble,
but over the thousand years thereafter.
And so what we're talking about now is
way beyond the comprehension of the
religious, of the political, of the,
you know,
there is no MAGAite on earth that's going
to understand this,
no conspiratorial individual because,
you know,
they're studying that little dot on the
wall and one thing gets their attention
and they can't look away from it.
And so you have to have a big
picture view of God.
You have to be open-minded and not just
focused on the entire picture while
looking at how the individual parts fit
together,
but be resolutely rational about what
you're hearing.
So God is saying by using kazab that
his credibility are on the line.
Dowd's it.
It's either with Dowd or we...
The whole human experience fails.
That's why the first prophecy in the Towrah
is of the greater and lesser luminaries.
That's why it's repeated in Yoel.
It's repeated in Yashayah.
It's repeated here in the Mizmowr.
All over.
This is the plan.
The fact that the prose of the
Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr prevailed and that
the intervention achieved its intent is
why we have returned here.
So while he may be...
Gilding the lily and hyping the resume of
Dowd when it comes to his son,
Yahowah is profuse with his praise because
Dowd did get his act together.
Our intervention prevailed.
He fulfilled Pesach, Matsah, and Bikuwrym.
His body suffered through crucifixion.
There's the Passover lamb.
And he did it voluntarily.
And his soul carried our guilt into Sheowl
so that we would be not guilty,
innocent before God.
So that God would only see the good
in us.
So we could be adopted into the covenant
following him.
Spectacular, isn't it?
So it says his offspring and that which
he sows.
will exist and endure forever into the
past and throughout the future.
How is that possible if the doorway to
life isn't opened?
How is that possible if we remain with
our guilt and therefore are excluded from
God's presence?
It isn't,
so it says that God opened the doorway
to life and removed our guilt by way
of what he achieved through Dowd.
His offspring and that which he sows will
exist and endure forever into the past and
throughout the future.
Owlam,
the full spectrum concept throughout time.
It is only because
And the life after this one.
Fulfilled Pesach, Matsah, and Bikuwrym.
It was his fourth, by the way.
It's pretty astounding, really,
when you think about it, isn't it?
Now that means, by the way,
that the source of eternal life can't be
through Jesus, or Akiba, or Maimonides,
or Allah, or Muhammad.
Because it's what Dowd says,
what he has achieved,
his harvest that matters now and
forevermore.
This next line goes right back to the
first prophecy in the Towrah.
And it says, and his throne,
his place of honor,
his sovereign authority,
and his fully reflective moon.
even his ability to conceal and cover,
kise huw,
his seat of sovereign leadership and
position of power.
His contribution to hiding and obscuring
with royal dignity is from kise,
authority and power and kasah,
to cover and conceal, clothe and adorn.
Will be as comparable to,
as brilliant as the sun,
conspicuously made known before me,
God says in first person, Naged any,
as my obvious collaborator,
revealed and acknowledged in my presence,
openly and publicly displayed in proximity
to me.
I mean,
it is absolute game over for the stupid
identity theft replacement
fool-ology game that Paul played to
deceive billions through Christianity.
It is game over for Rabbi Akiba and
his creation of rabbinic Judaism with Bar
Kokhba, the false Messiah.
It is game over for Muhammad who paid
rabbis to make Allah seem literate by
using Talmud recitals to fill out the
Quran.
It is game over.
The statement's just like that alone.
It's Dowd who's coming back.
His seat of honor and his fully exposed
and reflective moon are like the sun in
God's presence.
Sun and moon,
greater and lesser luminaries.
The sun and moon is the greater and
lesser luminaries
and Yirma'Yah, thirty-one,
as the covenant's being fulfilled.
So previously,
we learned that Dowd's Zera,
extended family,
would be prepared and established by
Yahowah.
Next,
we heard God say that Dowd's Zera seed
is going to be sim,
properly located and preserved.
And now, on this occasion,
for the third time,
we are told that Dowd's Zera offspring,
Hayah,
will continue to exist and endure
forevermore.
Extraordinary, isn't it?
Now, from the next statement,
we know that there are any one or
all of five things associated with Kise,
which will be made as brilliant as the
sun in God's presence.
Now these include the obvious, kise,
his throne,
which is the mercy seat of the Ark
of the Covenant,
and his position of honor as God's son
and our savior,
his sovereign authority as king
forevermore.
These things,
which are not as readily apparent,
but also meaningful,
are that upon Dowd's return,
the lesser luminary,
this man representing the moon,
will be brilliant too,
fully reflecting the greater luminary's
light.
Why?
Because Kise means full moon.
Additionally relevant,
the verbal root of Kise speaks of Dowd's
two most important days.
Did you catch that?
Matsah,
when he concealed our guilt in Sheowl,
never to be seen again.
And Kipurym,
when the guilt of Yisrael is covered in
anticipation of his return.
Yeah, Kipurym is based on kapowr,
it means to cover over.
And included in the possibilities,
either Dowd's overall appearance or the
apparel that his ‘Amah will be designing
for him,
may be seen as brilliant as the sun
too.
Leah likes to make clothing that is
designed out of starlight for Dowd and his
bride, Yisrael.
It's beautiful.
I don't know if you've seen it.
She's debuted it.
And while that is all spectacular and said
of none other than Dowd,
There are even more treasures hidden
within the etymological history and past
of Negev.
It reveals that it will become obvious to
everyone that Yahowah collaborated with
Dowd and is returning to him.
All read, Zechariah, Zechariah, twelve,
right?
That Yahowah is returning with the one whom
we pierced and that we will weep for
him as an only son.
And just before that,
he said that his spirit is gonna come
upon the house of Dowd.
And the son will be conspicuous next to
his father,
literally side by side as Yahowah's
counterpart.
Dowd will live up to his Elyown.
designation now just as it was six
thousand years ago so it will be in
year six thousand yeah the greater and
lesser luminaries will serve as
illuminating symbols of the Mowedym they're
fulfilling the Down Pesach Matsah Bikuwrym
the lesser luminary Shabuwah and Taruw'ah the
greater luminary coming home with Yahowah,
with the lesser luminary shining
brilliantly,
reflecting his light beside him on
Kipurym.
And the two continue all the way through
Sukah.
So as the sun returns,
the moon will take his position alongside,
prepared long ago
and established forevermore.
This will be our last statement of this
program.
Similar to the moon, yareach,
he will be prepared and affirmed as this
will be set in place and established.
He will be ready, he's gonna be appointed,
he'll be trusted, he will be sustained.
Nifl, imperfect, third person, masculine,
singular, from long ago,
through forevermore, alone, eternally,
throughout time,
from antiquity into futurity.
And so, yet,
the restoring witness to the eternal
testimony will be enduring and reliable.
He's gonna be Aman,
confident and credible.
He will be ready, verifiable, trustworthy,
and dependable.
In the sky and otherwise.
Above the insignificant specks of dust
below.
Pause now.
And contemplate.
What you have just heard.
Lyric to be sung.
Psalm eighty nine thirty seven.
Yes, Ethan,
they're perpetually reoccurring.
And the continually deployed.
Ha Ezrachy,
one coming forth as a tree to narrate
these events, as a Zarowa, now Yada,
will have completed his recent stint as
one of the two Ed restoring witnesses
during the conclusion of the time of
trouble.
His Ed testimony will endure and remain.
It will be reliable as he is forever
confident and credible.
This is one of the many times that
the sun and moon are joined together in
this way.
Not the first, but the last,
because they will last forever this way.
Here, God is saying that the moon,
representing the individual like the sun,
will be prepared to affirm and establish
his credibility and Dowd's responsibility.
He will continue to reflect the sun's
light,
just as Earth's satellite mirrors the
sun's brilliance when our star is
otherwise unseen at night.
And that is why the individual being
associated with Dowd,
albeit less luminous, is called Dowd.
an enduring, reliable, and loyal witness.
The relationship being established between
Dowd and Yada, the sun and moon,
as the greater and lesser luminaries is
essential to understanding the
Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr,
to understanding the creation account,
to appreciating what happened and will
occur in the Garden of Eden.
understanding the covenant presentation
and appreciating the Miqra'ey
pronouncements.
We serve that was interest.
And those of his people,
we deliver what God wants accomplished
when he wants it known and done.
And we have been unified in the past
and we are inseparable throughout the
future.
We are family, God's family.
So please, do as Yahowah has asked.
Pause now and reflect upon what God
revealed about his son.
The sun and the moon serve as witness.
Thank you for listening this evening and
just a matter of an hour ago in
our Ocean Studio.
Hope you enjoyed that broadcast.
We'll be back with you tomorrow.
We're going to begin a series on basics
and perhaps we can get beginning with them
tomorrow as we talk about the essentials
of this relationship with Yahowah,
who Yahowah is, what the covenant is,
what the Miqra'ey represent,
all things that
are just essential.
What Towrah really means.
So many things that will help everyone
develop a keen understanding of who God
is, what he's offering,
what he expects in return.
So hopefully we'll begin that series
tomorrow.
Thank you for listening.
Hey there, thanks for tuning in.
That was Fetch.
Gotta run now.
Catch y'all on our next podcast.